[Term Entry] Python String .isnumeric() function (#3303)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/strings/terms/isnumeric/isnumeric.md

---
Title: '.isnumeric()' 

> Description: 'Verifies all the characters within the string variable are numeric. '

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Verifies that all the characters within the string variable are numeric.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **`.isnumeric()`** is used to verify the string variable consists of numerical characters only. Which means no space, comma, dash, or any other characters. This function returns boolean values, **True** or **False**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**`.isnumeric()`** is used to verify the string variable consists of numerical characters only. Which means the string cannot contain a space, comma, dash, or any other characters that are not numerical. 
```

## Syntax

There are two ways of using this function:

> First

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo

> str.isnumeric(str_variable)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
str.isnumeric(str_variable)

str_variable.isnumeric()
```

```
Second
```pseudo
str_variable.isnumeric()

> ```

Reviewer: Delete

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

> This example shows how `.isnumeric()` function is used and returns **True** value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples implement `.isnumeric()` and will return `True`.
```

```python
print(str.isnumeric("2"))
print(str.isnumeric("½"))
print(str.isnumeric("2023"))
```

or

```python
# Define the string variables
num = "2"
one_half = "½"
year = "2023"

# Show the results
print(num.isnumeric())
print(one_half.isnumeric())
print(year.isnumeric())
```

> ## Example 2

Reviewer: I would suggest removing the second example since the codebyte is covering similar cases. Two examples is more than sufficient for a simple method such as this

This example shows how `.isnumeric()` function is used and returns **False** value.

```python
print(str.isnumeric("september"))
print(str.isnumeric("sep2023"))
print(str.isnumeric("sep 2023"))
```

or

```python
# Define the string variables
month = "september"
monthyear = "sep20203"
month_year = "sep 2023"

# Show the results
print(month.isnumeric())
print(monthyear.isnumeric())
print(month_year.isnumeric())
```

## Codebyte Example

> This example shows that `.isnumeric()` function returns **False** value whenever there is character other than numeric within the string variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example is runnable and demonstrates instances where `.isnumeric()` function returns `False`. 
```

```codebyte/python

> # Using space on string variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# A string that includes a space
```

print(str.isnumeric("20 21"))

> # Using comma on string variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# A string that includes a comma
```

print(str.isnumeric("20,21"))

> # Using dash on string variable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# A string that includes a dash
```
